Is Chinoiserie cultural appropriation or culture appreciation? You could see chinoiserie elements in Klimt's art. 
Was Gauguin appreciating the French colonies when he started to incorporate [exotic] element in his paintings and 
sculptures? He was living for many years in this places, he probably understood the costumes and meanings of his 
new sources of inspiration. If an artist understands the cultural meaning of what he is about to incorporate into 
his art, is that appreciation? Even if that artist represents privilege (white French in a French colony)in that
culture? 

Iâ€™m very confused on this subject if I have to be honest, mostly with the blur lines. As a designer with a 
background in performative arts part of my job is to take elements from other cultures, to create new aesthetics 
often resulting in a melange of symbols. I try my best to be respectful and understand the meaning of what is 
behind this elements. What they represent and how they are meaningful to the story I want to tell. If I made 
Otello and decide to use elements that are from North Africa to be faithful to the main character probably someone 
in the audience from this part of the world might be offended because I mixed Berber and Tunisian folklore, which 
I believe is valid. If we take from other cultures this is prone to happend, as creatives we need to learn about
this offences. Why? Who come?

As a South American is very difficult not to see myself as part of a constant cultural mix, from a very mix raced 
country were most people have black and white ancestors, white and indigenous ancestor or all of the three, plus 
Arabic. All our dances are mix raced, our art, our folklore but we were a colony that was brutally dominated by 
white Europeans, we are divided and our bias might be as strong as those to the colony time. So I understand that 
my skin is fair and I don't walk the same steps nor I suffer the same as someone whose ancestry is more obvious 
than mine and less privileged than mine. Even though I have indigenous ancestry I don't use any garments that 
might show it because something other than white European was usually something families hidden, so I know who 
they were nor I know if I have black ancestry which is always a possibility. But not knowing make me careful in my 
choices of using aesthetic that by explicit right don't belong to me, even if they think they do just for being 
part of that blooming cultural mix that I come from. How all this reflects in my work? I'm still figuring out my 
bias and my reaction towards them, but i think acknowledging all the components behind a self and a culture, makes 
me so prone to respect and investigate about  a culture as thoroughly as i can if im gonna take elements from it 
to create my universes. All museums and cultural spaces should aknowledge that some components needs to be 
approached carefully because is all to blur.
